examples/linked.md, before:

Demonstrate setting variable values interactively for use in generated scripts.

```opts :(document_options)
pause_after_script_execution: false
user_must_approve: false
```

```link :missing_block
block: (display_variable)
eval: true
```
Block name with all chars.
/ !"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~
/ ¡¢£¤¥¦§¨©ª«¬®¯°±²³´µ¶·¸¹º»¼½¾¿ÀÁÂÃÄÅÆÇÈÉÊËÌÍÎÏÐÑÒÓÔÕÖ×ØÙÚÛÜÝÞßàáâãäåæçèéêëìíîïðñòóôõö÷øùúûüýþÿ
```link :!"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
```link :¡¢£¤¥¦§¨©ª«¬®¯°±²³´µ¶·¸¹º»¼½¾¿ÀÁÂÃÄÅÆÇÈÉÊËÌÍÎÏÐÑÒÓÔÕÖ×ØÙÚÛÜÝÞßàáâãäåæçèéêëìíîïðñòóôõö÷øùúûüýþÿ
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
Block with no title is displayed correctly in a single line (for a Bash comment).
```link
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
Spaces in variable value are unchanged.
```link :link_with_vars_with_spaces
vars:
  test: "1 2 3"
```

::: Set variable ALPHA in a Vars block
For each environment variable named in block,
 append an inherited line that assigns the variable the specified value.
```vars :set_ALPHA_to_1_via_vars_block
ALPHA: 1
```

::: Set variable ALPHA in a Link block
For each environment variable in `vars`,
 append an inherited line that assigns the variable the specified value.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```link :set_ALPHA_to_2_via_link_block_and_display
block: display_variable_ALPHA
vars:
  ALPHA: 2
```

Make the code in the required block `(bash_set_to_3)` into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```bash :(bash_set_to_3)
ALPHA=3
```
```link :set_ALPHA_to_3_via_required_block_and_display +(bash_set_to_3)
block: display_variable_ALPHA
```

Evaluate the code in the required block `(bash_eval_set_to_4)` and
 save (transformed) output into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```link :set_ALPHA_to_4_via_evaluated_required_block_and_display +(bash_eval_set_to_4)
eval: true
next_block: display_variable_ALPHA
```
```bash :(bash_eval_set_to_4)
echo 'ALPHA="4"'
```

::: Display value of ALPHA
```bash :display_variable_ALPHA
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
echo The current value of environment variable ALPHA is now:
colorize_env_vars '' ALPHA
```

::: Load file into inherited lines
Load (do not evaluate) and append to inherited lines.
```link :load1
load: examples/load1.sh
```
Load, evaluate, and append output to inherited lines.
```link :load2_eval
load: examples/load2.sh
eval: true
```

::: Save and Load
Save inherited lines to a file.
```link :save1
save: tmp/save1.sh
```
Load inherited lines from a file.
Subsequently, run the `display_variables` block.
```link :load_saved
load: tmp/save1.sh
block: display_variables
```
Display variables ALPHA, var1, var2
```bash :display_variables
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
colorize_env_vars '' ALPHA var1 var2
```

Execute a script requiring input from the user.
Save the output setting TIMESTAMP into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_TIMESTAMP` block.
```bash :(input_timestamp)
if [[ -z $TIMESTAMP ]]; then
  default="$(date -u +%y%m%d)"
  echo "yymmdd? (default: $default / today UTC) "
  read -r TIMESTAMP
  [[ -z $TIMESTAMP ]] && TIMESTAMP="$(date -u +%y%m%d)"
fi
```
```bash :(inherit_timestamp)
echo "TIMESTAMP=\"$TIMESTAMP\""
```
```link :set_timestamp +(input_timestamp) +(inherit_timestamp)
exec: true
block: display_TIMESTAMP
```
```bash :display_TIMESTAMP
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
colorize_env_vars '' TIMESTAMP
```

::: Load file matching glob pattern into inherited lines
Load (do not evaluate) and append to inherited lines.
```link :load_glob_load1*
load: examples/load1*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_load*
load: examples/load*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_fail
load: examples/fail*
```
```link :load_glob_with_format
load: "%{home}/examples/load*.sh"
```
```link :save_glob_load*
save: examples/*.sh
```
```link :save_glob_*
save: examples/*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_*
load: examples/*.sh
```

Commit message:

Dynamic menu items Load, Edit, Save, and View Code
Options for location of saved code and display of dynamic menu items.
Append to menus based on the presence of saved code files or current
inherited lines.
Color-code folder names in the menu following a keyword search.

examples/linked.md, after:

Demonstrate setting variable values interactively for use in generated scripts.

```opts :(document_options)
pause_after_script_execution: false
user_must_approve: false
```

```link :missing_block
block: (display_variable)
eval: true
```
Block name with all chars.
/ !"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~
/ ¡¢£¤¥¦§¨©ª«¬®¯°±²³´µ¶·¸¹º»¼½¾¿ÀÁÂÃÄÅÆÇÈÉÊËÌÍÎÏÐÑÒÓÔÕÖ×ØÙÚÛÜÝÞßàáâãäåæçèéêëìíîïðñòóôõö÷øùúûüýþÿ
```link :!"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
```link :¡¢£¤¥¦§¨©ª«¬®¯°±²³´µ¶·¸¹º»¼½¾¿ÀÁÂÃÄÅÆÇÈÉÊËÌÍÎÏÐÑÒÓÔÕÖ×ØÙÚÛÜÝÞßàáâãäåæçèéêëìíîïðñòóôõö÷øùúûüýþÿ
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
Block with no title is displayed correctly in a single line (for a Bash comment).
```link
file: examples/linked2.md
block: show_vars
vars:
  page2_var_via_environment: for_page2_from_page1_via_current_environment
```
Spaces in variable value are unchanged.
```link :link_with_vars_with_spaces
vars:
  test: "1 2 3"
```

::: Set variable ALPHA in a Vars block
For each environment variable named in block,
 append an inherited line that assigns the variable the specified value.
```vars :set_ALPHA_to_1_via_vars_block
ALPHA: 1
```

::: Set variable ALPHA in a Link block
For each environment variable in `vars`,
 append an inherited line that assigns the variable the specified value.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```link :set_ALPHA_to_2_via_link_block_and_display
block: display_variable_ALPHA
vars:
  ALPHA: 2
```

Make the code in the required block `(bash_set_to_3)` into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```bash :(bash_set_to_3)
ALPHA=3
```
```link :set_ALPHA_to_3_via_required_block_and_display +(bash_set_to_3)
block: display_variable_ALPHA
```

Evaluate the code in the required block `(bash_eval_set_to_4)` and
 save (transformed) output into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_variable_ALPHA` block.
```link :set_ALPHA_to_4_via_evaluated_required_block_and_display +(bash_eval_set_to_4)
eval: true
next_block: display_variable_ALPHA
```
```bash :(bash_eval_set_to_4)
echo 'ALPHA="4"'
```

::: Display value of ALPHA
```bash :display_variable_ALPHA
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
echo The current value of environment variable ALPHA is now:
colorize_env_vars '' ALPHA
```

::: Load file into inherited lines
Load (do not evaluate) and append to inherited lines.
```link :load1
load: examples/load1.sh
```
Load, evaluate, and append output to inherited lines.
```link :load2_eval
load: examples/load2.sh
eval: true
```

::: Load file into inherited lines and switch document
Load (do not evaluate) and append to inherited lines and switch document.
```link :load_from_file_link_and_show
block: show_vars
file: examples/linked_show.md
load: examples/load1.sh
```

::: Save and Load
Save inherited lines to a file.
```link :save1
save: tmp/save1.sh
```
Load inherited lines from a file.
Subsequently, run the `display_variables` block.
```link :load_saved
load: tmp/save1.sh
block: display_variables
```
Display variables ALPHA, var1, var2
```bash :display_variables
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
colorize_env_vars '' ALPHA var1 var2
```

Execute a script requiring input from the user.
Save the output setting TIMESTAMP into inherited lines.
Subsequently, run the `display_TIMESTAMP` block.
```bash :(input_timestamp)
if [[ -z $TIMESTAMP ]]; then
  default="$(date -u +%y%m%d)"
  echo "yymmdd? (default: $default / today UTC) "
  read -r TIMESTAMP
  [[ -z $TIMESTAMP ]] && TIMESTAMP="$(date -u +%y%m%d)"
fi
```
```bash :(inherit_timestamp)
echo "TIMESTAMP=\"$TIMESTAMP\""
```
```link :set_timestamp +(input_timestamp) +(inherit_timestamp)
exec: true
block: display_TIMESTAMP
```
```bash :display_TIMESTAMP
source bin/colorize_env_vars.sh
colorize_env_vars '' TIMESTAMP
```

::: Load file matching glob pattern into inherited lines
Load (do not evaluate) and append to inherited lines.
```link :load_glob_load1*
load: examples/load1*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_load*
load: examples/load*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_fail
load: examples/fail*
```
```link :load_glob_with_format
load: "%{home}/examples/load*.sh"
```
```link :save_glob_load*
save: examples/*.sh
```
```link :save_glob_*
save: examples/*.sh
```
```link :load_glob_*
load: examples/*.sh
```
