examples/nickname.md, before:

# Demo block nicknames

```opts :(document_options)
save_executed_script: true
```

## Blocks with no name
::: This block has no name.
::: The code block is displayed.

```bash
echo This block has no name.
```

## Blocks with nicknames
::: The code block is displayed.
::: The nickname can be used to require the block.

```bash :[A]
echo This block has a nickname.
echo The full block is displayed in the menu.
```

### Nicknames in documents
::: Execute this block that requires the block above by its nickname.
```bash :[B] +[A]
echo This block has a nickname.
echo It requires the block above by its nickname.
```

### Nicknames from the command line
Block `[A]` is called from the command line.
```bash
mde examples/nickname.md '[A]'
```

## Blocks with hidden names
::: Nothing is displayed in the menu.
::: There is a hidden block here.
::: This block requires the block above by its nickname.
```bash :(C) +[A]
echo This block is hidden from the menu.
```

### Hidden names from the command line
Block `(C)` is called from the command line.
```bash
mde examples/nickname.md '(C)'
```

Commit message:

Line-wrap and center headings
Divide line into indentation, text, and trailing whitespace.
Add method for block name in commands and documents.
Do not decorate indentations.
Adjust parsing of dividers.
Add trap for user interrupting executing script.

examples/nickname.md, after:

# Demo block nicknames

```opts :(document_options)
pause_after_script_execution: true
```

## Blocks with no name
::: This block has no name.
::: The code block is displayed.

```bash
echo This block has no name.
```

## Blocks with nicknames
::: The code block is displayed.
::: The nickname can be used to require the block.

```bash :[A]
echo 'This block has a nickname: [A].'
echo The full block is displayed in the menu.
```

### Nicknames in documents
::: Execute this block that requires the block above by its nickname.
```bash :[B] +[A]
echo 'This block has a nickname: [B].'
echo 'This block requires block [A].'
```

### Nicknames from the command line
Block `[A]` is called from the command line.
```bash
mde examples/nickname.md '[A]'
```

## Blocks with hidden names
### There is a hidden block here.
::: This block has a hidden name: (C).
::: This block does not appear in the menu.
::: This block requires the block above by its nickname.
```bash :(C) +[A]
echo 'This block has a hidden name: (C).'
echo This block is hidden from the menu.
echo 'This block requires block [A].'
```

### Hidden names from the command line
Block `(C)` is called from the command line.
```bash
mde examples/nickname.md '(C)'
```
